# Gitlet-Version-Control-System

A version-control system with features inspired by the famous Git: saving contents, reverting, viewing logs, maintaing and merging branches; can work both locally and remotely.

## Local Repo Features
- `java gitlet.Main init`: Creates a new Gitlet version-control system in the current directory. This system will automatically start with one commit: a commit that contains no files and has the commit message initial commit (just like that, with no punctuation). It will have a single branch: `master`, which initially points to this initial commit, and `master` will be the current branch. The timestamp for this initial commit will be 00:00:00 UTC, Thursday, 1 January 1970 in whatever format you choose for dates (this is called "The (Unix) Epoch", represented internally by the time 0.) Since the initial commit in all repositories created by Gitlet will have exactly the same content, it follows that all repositories will automatically share this commit (they will all have the same UID) and all commits in all repositories will trace back to it.
- `java gitlet.Main add [file name]`: Adds a copy of the file as it currently exists to the staging area (see the description of the commit command). For this reason, adding a file is also called staging the file for addition. Staging an already-staged file overwrites the previous entry in the staging area with the new contents. The staging area should be somewhere in `.gitlet`. If the current working version of the file is identical to the version in the current commit, do not stage it to be added, and remove it from the staging area if it is already there (as can happen when a file is changed, added, and then changed back). The file will no longer be staged for removal (see `gitlet rm`), if it was at the time of the command
- `java gitlet.Main commit [message]`: Saves a snapshot of tracked files in the current commit and staging area so they can be restored at a later time, creating a new commit. The commit is said to be tracking the saved files. By default, each commit's snapshot of files will be exactly the same as its parent commit's snapshot of files; it will keep versions of files exactly as they are, and not update them. A commit will only update the contents of files it is tracking that have been staged for addition at the time of commit, in which case the commit will now include the version of the file that was staged instead of the version it got from its parent. A commit will save and start tracking any files that were staged for addition but weren't tracked by its parent. Finally, files tracked in the current commit may be untracked in the new commit as a result being staged for removal by the `rm` command (below).
- `java gitlet.Main rm [file name]`: Unstage the file if it is currently staged for addition. If the file is tracked in the current commit, stage it for removal and remove the file from the working directory if the user has not already done so (do not remove it unless it is tracked in the current commit).
- `java gitlet.Main log`: Starting at the current head commit, display information about each commit backwards along the commit tree until the initial commit, following the first parent commit links, ignoring any second parents found in merge commits. (In regular Git, this is what you get with git log --first-parent). This set of commit nodes is called the commit's history. For every node in this history, the information it should display is the commit id, the time the commit was made, and the commit message.
- `java gitlet.Main global-log`: Like log, except displays information about all commits ever made. The order of the commits does not matter. Hint: there is a useful method in gitlet.Utils that will help you iterate over files within a directory.
- `java gitlet.Main find [commit message]`: Prints out the ids of all commits that have the given commit message, one per line. If there are multiple such commits, it prints the ids out on separate lines. The commit message is a single operand; to indicate a multiword message, put the operand in quotation marks, as for the commit command above.
- `java gitlet.Main status`: Displays what branches currently exist, and marks the current branch with a *. Also displays what files have been staged for addition or removal.
- `java gitlet.Main checkout -- [file name]`: Takes the version of the file as it exists in the head commit, the front of the current branch, and puts it in the working directory, overwriting the version of the file that's already there if there is one. The new version of the file is not staged.
- `java gitlet.Main checkout [commit id] -- [file name]`: Takes the version of the file as it exists in the commit with the given id, and puts it in the working directory, overwriting the version of the file that's already there if there is one. The new version of the file is not staged.
- `java gitlet.Main checkout [branch name]`: Takes all files in the commit at the head of the given branch, and puts them in the working directory, overwriting the versions of the files that are already there if they exist. Also, at the end of this command, the given branch will now be considered the current branch (HEAD). Any files that are tracked in the current branch but are not present in the checked-out branch are deleted. The staging area is cleared, unless the checked-out branch is the current branch.
- `java gitlet.Main branch [branch name]`: Creates a new branch with the given name, and points it at the current head node. A branch is nothing more than a name for a reference (a SHA-1 identifier) to a commit node. This command does NOT immediately switch to the newly created branch (just as in real Git). Before you ever call branch, your code should be running with a default branch called "master".
- `java gitlet.Main rm-branch [branch name]`: Deletes the branch with the given name. This only means to delete the pointer associated with the branch; it does not mean to delete all commits that were created under the branch, or anything like that.
- `java gitlet.Main reset [commit id]`: Checks out all the files tracked by the given commit. Removes tracked files that are not present in that commit. Also moves the current branch's head to that commit node. See the intro for an example of what happens to the head pointer after using reset. The `[commit id]` may be abbreviated as for checkout. The staging area is cleared. The command is essentially checkout of an arbitrary commit that also changes the current branch head.
- `java gitlet.Main merge [branch name]`: Merges files from the given branch into the current branch.
## Remote Repo Features
- `java gitlet.Main add-remote [remote name] [name of remote directory]/.gitlet`: Saves the given login information under the given remote name. Attempts to push or pull from the given remote name will then attempt to use this `.gitlet` directory.
- `java gitlet.Main rm-remote [remote name]`: Remove information associated with the given remote name. The idea here is that if you ever wanted to change a remote that you added, you would have to first remove it and then re-add it.
- `java gitlet.Main push [remote name] [remote branch name]`: Attempts to append the current branch's commits to the end of the given branch at the given remote.
- `java gitlet.Main fetch [remote name] [remote branch name]`: Brings down commits from the remote Gitlet repository into the local Gitlet repository. Basically, this copies all commits and blobs from the given branch in the remote repository (that are not already in the current repository) into a branch named `[remote name]/[remote branch name]` in the local `.gitlet` (just as in real Git), changing `[remote name]/[remote branch name]` to point to the head commit (thus copying the contents of the branch from the remote repository to the current one). This branch is created in the local repository if it did not previously exist.
- `java gitlet.Main pull [remote name] [remote branch name]`: Fetches branch `[remote name]/[remote branch name]` as for the fetch command, and then merges that fetch into the current branch.
